



##Ahmed Seref Guneysu







About Version Control

What is version control, and why should you care? Version control is a system that records changes to a file or set of files over time so that you can recall specific versions later. 

Local Version Control Systems

Many people’s version-control method of choice is to copy files into another directory (perhaps a time-stamped directory, if they’re clever). This approach is very common because it is so simple, but it is also incredibly error prone. It is easy to forget which directory you’re in and accidentally write to the wrong file or copy over files you don’t mean to.￿



What is Git?

Git is an open source, distributed version control system designed for speed an efficiency.



Github.com?

Github.com is an web application and code hosting provider for easy use and
collaboration.

Github provides also 


Easy web page publishing for projects or person/organizations
Guneysus Presentation
Wikipage for projects.
Issues page for bug/feature tracking
Useful graphs for the software project managements.
Integrating with hundreds of web application including   Redmine




Git Basics

Getting a Repo



Create an empty repo


Github for Mac


Source tree [Mac]

Or command line
git init



Cloning a Repository



Clone

an existing repository

on the anywhere that you have permission to read.

git clone https://github.com/careitu/git-presentation.git

git clone git@github.com:careitu/git-presentation.git

These two addressed nearly the same and if you want to push your work to this
repo, you must use these addresses.

Third one is the read-only. 
git clone git://github.com/careitu/git-presentation.git



or Clone

via Graphical User Interface

 




or Fork

an existing repo on [Github]





Add files to the working directory

touch new_file.txt

git add new_file.txt



Or Add files with Github GUI

Or your Git GUI (Source tree, Github for Mac, Github for Windows, etc)
will recognize files that are not added to your working directory.



Commit the changes



Commit

Means that you approve your work and merge your changes to your repository.

If you have done your local work, 
You can commit the changes with descriptive message.

It is recommended that you finished a small task of your project, then commit.
Do not Commit if you changed flie to file



Commit and Add with Github GUI

With Github you can commit and add new files at the same dialog.





Summary


Init/Clone/Fork a repo to your computer
Edit/Add some files to your working directory.
Review your changes.
Commit the changes to your local copy.
If you have write permission to remote repo,
push the changes
Visual Cheat Sheet:
cheatsheet




Conflict

Conflict occurs if


A file changed by two or more people/branch
And try to push the changes central repository
And the &#8216;Source Control Software&#8217; can not decide which one should be selected.

